# ReadMe Example

This project is based on **** using a ****.

## For update GUI

To generate scripts write in terminal
```shell
python -m PyQt5.uic.pyuic -x main_frame.ui -o src/view/main_window.py
```
## 1. Description

This program is based on I2C protocol to communicate the SBC with the ADS1115. After the communication is sucessful, the data will be shown at the screen, similar to an oscilloscope, where the user will be able to check the scale, change it if needed, and check the signals the SBC is receiving.

### 1.1 Elements of the Library

* 'OscilloscopeGraphic' - contains the visual implementation of a Oscilloscope screen.
* 'I2CTreatment' - responsible for converting the received data in voltage scale for the oscilloscope.
* 'I2CHandler' - responsible for creating and maintaing the communication via I2C with the conversor.
* 'Observer' - responsible for handling events that may occurs during the application process.

## Usage

The data is generated by the I2CHandler, and the update time for the data to be drwan is 500ms.

* Define OscilloscopeGraphic for your screen. It should be a 'GUI' class and will be in charge: to draw the data received (be it the grid or the signals in each channel), to convert the voltage values on axis coordinates. To implement, it is necessary to have access to some components of '.ui', be it 'GraphicsView', used as a canvas, and its events need to be called by a handler. 
https://github.com/Jictyvoo/TEC499--raspberry_digital_oscilloscope/blob/master/src/view/OscilloscopeGraphic.py
* Define I2CTreatment which is responsible for your data receivement treatment. It is a class that manages the data from ADS1115, and this binary data has a range of 0 - 255 bits and will convert in a voltage range value of 0 - 5 V, in a native way. Moreover, it's responsible to keep asking for new values to be updated. To be implemented, it is necessary only the module from 'Yarpie', the 'RPi_emu'.
https://github.com/Jictyvoo/TEC499--raspberry_digital_oscilloscope/blob/master/src/models/I2CTreatment.py
* Define I2CHandler for your data communication. This handler is a class that will be executed in another thread to send data to ADS, to collect the returning data from the conversor and storing it in a list. When the list is full, it will update the data. To be implemented, it is necessary to have a communication with the emulator or with the I2C module in the Raspberry, and it needs to have the 'Thread' library in pyhton. 
https://github.com/Jictyvoo/TEC499--raspberry_digital_oscilloscope/blob/master/src/controllers/I2CHandler.py
* Define Observer for your event handlings. It is a file that contains the class 'EventHandler' that uses functions intertwained with the inputs from the 'GUI', that means, each time a value is modified on the sliders or on the checkboxes, these operations will call a function on 'OscilloscopeGraphic' that will update the values that changes what is being drawn. To implement the oberser is necessary to have access to the whole 'GUI' to inform which events will be called.
https://github.com/Jictyvoo/TEC499--raspberry_digital_oscilloscope/blob/master/src/controllers/Observer.py

## Setup

Execute using Python3.x

* ```pip3 install pygame```
* ```pip3 install PyQt5```

Currently you'll need to install Yarpie emulator on your environment to test it


### How to run

Once dependencies are installed, open src folder and run
in windows
```shell
python .\main.py
```
in linux
```shell
python3 ./main.py
```

## License
GNU
